hi welcome to coffee break tuesday with
pam
a small business owner sean reached out
to me and asked how to set up efficient
and cohesive
martech stack for his company that's a
loaded question so in this video i'll
guide you through the thinking approach
and break down three key steps that you
can take to tackle this hairy issue yes
you can do this all right by the way my
q state coffee break is a series that is
syndicated to linkedin
facebook
youtube and twitter
right if you miss
this live stream don't worry about it
you can always see the past recorded
video and this one on pam dinner youtube
channel so check that out
and by the way if you like the way i
explain the approach or the key steps
that you can take please subscribe and
comment below and love love love to hear
from you so let me give you a little
background about this specific question
and also xiang how this question came
about
he and his two business partners sell an
irish dance music streaming application
called
fash yeah i know it spells like f-e-i-s
but really pronounces fash that just
fascinates me
their growth has been almost solely
organic
with next to no marketing plan or data
collection whatsoever however they
recognize that the continuous growth the
hinges on the implementation of a
maltech infrastructure
but the more sean reads about various
marketing technologies the more he's
overwhelmed by the information i don't
blame him me too when i started several
years ago and start trying to put a
workflow together for my own um
consulting practice
i feel the same way as well the more i
read about the different kind of
marketing technologies the more confused
i was
so by strode of luck he found me on the
internet and scheduled call with me he
wanted to know how to tackle the martech
stack
so here are the three elements i share
with sean and i thought you might find
them useful as well
number one
mod tag is inherently complicated the
best way to navigate
is know exactly what you need to build
right to do that i told him to get
together with his two partners go to a
pub coffee shop or wherever
to have in-depth conversations about the
business objective and the marketing
goals
it was important for them to hammer
what they wanted to accomplish how they
tried to measure their marketing success
you can't do marketing unless you have a
good product first and he knows that and
he's building that he will take care of
that
the next is to craft the business
objectives and goals accordingly
so once those three partners could
agreed on their business objectives and
model
then they would need to determine which
channels they would like to use to
achieve their marketing outreach is it
facebook email spotify podcast
advertising whatever it may be
so here is one example i share with him
was the goal to grow their facebook
community like i said that's an example
should they do facebook ads to drive
traffic to their community
right if that's the case then facebook
is the main channel that he needs to
focus on right i told sean there are
many many ways to reach out to potential
customers
he would need to think through
which specific channels he really wanted
to use for his marketing outreach effort
once you know that information you can
work backward
to build your mod tech specifically for
those channels
in addition he would need to know what
customer data that he would like to
collect and what success metrics he like
to measure
customer outreach channels customer data
collection as well as as well as success
metrics
will all guide him through the martech
stack process
if you know what you want
certainly you can self-filter out
many maltec technologies that will not
apply to you
you can also explain to vendors what you
want to do and give them very good ideas
how they can help you
you will realize that my tech stack
isn't as intimidating as it seems
it doesn't mean it's not hard it is
still hard it just means that now you
know what to look for
knowing your business objective
as well as marketing channels that you
want to use and success metrics
you are looking for will go a long way
to build your martech stack
does that make sense
all right that's number one
number two
know that it takes time
and the money
to build my tech
here's another thing i share with sean
digital takes time to do right
once you build the flow
you need to test to make sure it works
and ninety percent of the time it
doesn't work the first time
oh trust me i try many times
also the workflow needs to connect
several system
through api integration
or data migration
or be aware that data may not migrate
correctly or the api can break when you
try to connect different system and
technology suddenly everything becomes
very fragile
right because once you connect different
systems together if something breaks
everything else will break
okay
at the same time technologies are not
cheap
you need to set aside money and budget
to build your mod tech
there's no magic shortcut unfortunately
i'm an individual consultant and people
are often shocked how much money i spend
on technologies but unfortunately
there's no other way around
okay
right that's number two
number three
pay media needs to be part of marketing
strategy
so this is a harsh reality for small
businesses to grasp and understand
you can grow your business organically
to some extent
however at some point you will hit the
ceiling
if you need to grow you need to do pay
advertising which means pay search pay
ads or even pay sponsors
paid is essential part of marketing the
challenge is that you can't
do pay effectively with just one off
campaign so one of effort you cannot do
oh i would do pay for a month next month
next six months you are not doing
anything okay
the pay effort needs to be sustainable
over time
right
and over long period of time
a lot of time
so marketing is a journey it's not a
sprint i do marketing every day
well it can be an interview right a
podcast interview
i took on
or it can be a live video like what i'm
doing right now or as simple as writing
a single linkedin post or a short tweet
all that effort is some sort of
marketing outreach
the point is marketing doesn't stop ever
people often ask me how much they should
spend unpaid
that is subject to discussion but in
general it needs to be a decent amount
to make an impact on whatever you are
tracking
let me give you one simple example
when you do pay you will be able to
calculate your cost per marketing lead
or cost per acquisition
say if you pay three dollars per podcast
download well if you want to get 20 000
downloads
you kind of know you need about 60 000
right not cheap
so the lower you can get down in terms
of the dollar cost per
the lower the total price tag will be
when i did a facebook pay ads to promote
my workshop several years ago
the conversion to purchase my workshop
was 180
and i'm not talking about driving
traffic to my website i'm talking about
the person actually register and pay for
my workshop i have to spend about 180
dollars
so if i wanted 50 attendees you can
easily calculate my projected promotion
was about 9 000
right so pay in general
is not cheap
organic referrals and the word of mouth
are the best ways to get customers but
building your referrals and the word of
mouth takes time there's no other way
around it's you know business in general
is a long play
right once you start doing this uh the
project once you start having customers
right and that if they like your job i'm
sorry if they like what you deliver and
they will share right and that's
referrals and does take time to build
that customer uh or clientele
so bring it back to sean
we had a great conversation together i
gave him enough steps and ideas for him
to think about what he needs to do next
if you are in the process building your
martech stack let me know what your
process is like
is there overlap with what i have
described or is there's anything that's
totally different so you know share that
with me so we can learn from each other
again i hope you enjoyed today's coffee
break and don't forget to comment and
subscribe below and join me next time
for a brand new topic take care bye